In the 1950s, television was only on in short bursts.
You literally got a children's hour at five o'clock, followed by the news,
and then television service resumed again. It must have closed down at half past six,
and then resumed again around about eight o'clock and went through till ten,
or perhaps eleven, because I can remember the epilogue man, known among school friends as the
epilogue man, who was at one stage was one of the, it was, they had a list of people who did it,
and we would watch the Padre and then we'd compare the Padre with the Methodi Mound and
the Anglican Priest and so on.
When we moved, when my family moved out of London, which was in 1956,
so, and then we moved up to North Wales, actually higher up the mountain than here,
up in Gwynfyn village. We didn't have television for about two years,
and then I can remember going to a friend's home to watch, of all things, the Beverly Sisters,
and then, and somebody else had television, and they were rather keen on Sergeant Bilko,
which I didn't really understand. When we got television in our home again,
when we got television in our home again, I remember sitting with my grandma,
who was over on a visit from Leeds, and we watched a production of Bernard Shaw, Major Barbara,
and the young woman heroine was Judi Dench, and my grandma said, she's good.
We'll watch her, we'll watch out for her, and I still do.
Grandma always also liked come dancing. Victor Sylvester.
What did I watch? By then I was sort of at the leaving school age,
school in Wrexham. It was differently orientated from my London school. My London school was
turning us out to be career women, and we were being told, assessed, helping our decisions for
which way we were going. Up here in Wrexham, we were much more being turned out to be good wives
and mothers, good housekeepers. So somehow the intellectual side of life wasn't brought forward
so much. Much better to be able to make a good Christmas cake or to be able to make a good
cake or to cut and sew your own clothes. And then when I left school,
I was busy with a young life and we didn't watch TV. Not to make a thing about it.
But in later years, after I was married and had a family, I watched TV. Ah!
My daughter fell into a category for the birthday trust, and when she was assessed at three and a
half, the lady doing the questionnaire asked me how much television my daughter watched.
And I said, well, children don't watch a lot. And I told her what was watched. And she spent
three-quarters of an hour trying to trip my daughter up to find out if she watched more
television than that. Because she didn't believe you could just watch play school
and just watch part of the children's hour program. So I was always very selective.
I also got indignant with the mothers who told me they were seeing the same Andy Pandy programs
over again with the third child. Because I'd watched those programs with my younger sister
in the 1950s. And I'm not quite sure how they coloured the film
for the later things. So yes, I've always been quite selective.
And just at the moment, I don't actually have a television. Because about four years ago,
I'd settled myself down on the sofa to watch Gardener's World and gone to sleep.
And as that was one of the programs at Instagram, I was very, very, very, very,
very, very, very, very excited. So then programs that instigated my husband and I getting a colour
television, I thought the programs had rather gone off. And so my licence was due within a few weeks.
I wasn't having a television, I wasn't renewing my licence.
And I haven't really missed it.
Radio Times does a good job in keeping up with what's going on.
Have you got any experience of watching television with a lot of other people or in a public place?
Yes.
These days I'm not without television altogether because I go to the gym and upstairs where the machines are, particularly the running machines, there's TV and you decide which one you want.
So I look for a rugby match.
Although the soccer and the cricket is quite good because you get to see the pictures and enjoy the game without the overpowering commentary.
Of all the things you've seen on television, what's had the greatest impression on you?
Ooh.
Obviously what we started with, the funeral of George VI, Michael Burke's Ethiopia,
and possibly some of the natural dramas, volcanic tsunami.
The power of what can happen that we as the human race have no control over.